#summary Code review conventions for Flight Map.
#labels Phase-Implementation

= Introduction =
We use a slight modification to the positive/neutral/negative voting system for code reviews. A negative vote indicates the reviewer feels a change is needed.

= Details =
The voting buttons at code.google.com say that a negative vote indicates the reviewer opposes the change. We also use a negative vote to indicate that a reviewer feels the author needs to address an issue by making a code change,  even if the overall change is good.

|| *Vote* || *Flight Map definition* || *code.google.com definition* ||
|| Positive || I support this change, and _*no code changes are needed*_ || I support this change ||
|| Neutral || I am ambivalent about this change || I am ambivalent about this change	||
|| Negative || _*I believe code changes are needed*_, or I oppose this change and I have explained why in my review comments. || I oppose this change, and I am willing to explain why. ||

= Reviewing Code =
Try to review soon after the commit to make it easier for the author to address any issues you have.

= Addressing a Review of Your code =
If someone made a negative vote on one of your revisions, address the comment either by changing the code or talking to the reviewer about it. When you've addressed the issue, add a positive vote to the revision that had the negative vote, and explain how you addressed the issue. If you made a code change and submitted it, include the revision number. Hint: if you reference your revision in the form r287, then a link will automatically be created for you.