#summary Flight Map Release Notes
<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />
=Flight Map - Google Dogfood Edition - Release Notes=

==Intro==
Flight Map is an Android application created by Googler pilots who wanted to build a fun, simple-to-use aid to navigation and fair-weather pilotage. It is in its absolute earliest stages of development/feature maturity, but it's ready for pilots and other interested parties to dogfood in flight.

Flight Map offers these features:
  *  Works in *Airplane Mode*. All the data is kept locally on your phone.
  *  Current track, speed, and altitude
  *  GPS-plotted position on a moving, zoom-able map with nearby airport display
  *  Detailed airport/facility information available by tapping on airports shown on screen 
  *  Pilot-controlled settings for north/track up orientation, facility types to display
  *  Automatic facility database download and updating (data currently provided from official FAA sources; others are being considered)

We plan to add the following features in future releases:
  *  Record and save in-flight GPS tracks using the Android MyTracks application, if installed
  *  Multitouch pan and zoom of the display map
  *  Terrain, airspace, road, and water detail layers in 2D mode
  *  Separate Airport/Facility database browse and search
…and the big one: a Sky Map-like augmented reality view through the device camera that can help reveal airports. Here is a [https://sites.google.com/a/google.com/blackbox/home/user-experience conceptual screenshot]. 

==Find bugs? Awesome. Tell us everything.==
Please file a bug using our official [http://code.google.com/p/flightmap/issues/list issues list] on the Google code site. (There are multiple bugs filed already – be sure to double-check for duplicates).

Also, you should consider joining the Flight Map [http://g/flightmap mailing list]. The development team will monitor this list for discussion and provide updates on development plans and launch timetables through it.

=Coming Soon=
  * Panning the map.
  * Pinch-to-zoom.
  * Simulator mode.

=Release: v0.7.0 - 9/24/10=
  * Bug fixes
    * Screen stays on the airport details page. It was already kept on on the map page.
      * General decision: any page that updates automatically with map or navigation data will keep the screen on.
    * Map incorrectly rotated by magnetic variation amount. Issue 89.
    * Show integer scale values and make zoom scale more visible. Issue 77.
    * Move zoom scale control so it doesn't overlap with zoom scale text. Issue 45.
  * New functionality
    * Database query to fetch airports in view is on a separate thread.
      * After changing zoom levels, airports may appear or disappear based on their ranking.
      * Currently no indication to user of areas of the screen with database queries in progress.
    * Search by airport code (later name, city, etc.)
    * Aviation database is only updated on schema changes or if data is past its expiration date.
      * Database downloads cannot be interrupted by hitting the "back" button.

=Release: v0.5.1 - 9/9/10=
  * Bug fixes
    * Solves reported issue:  "Database update failed" error dialog would appear even though download completed successfully.

=Release: v0.5.0 - 9/2/10=
Initial dogfood release.
  * Known issues
    * Communication frequency data for airports is widely incomplete/inconsistent. This is our #1 motivator for a better data source.
    *  GPS-derived altitude reads 100 feet low on Nexus One (this inaccuracy may occur on other hardware, too).
    *  GPS-derived ground speed is sometimes very wrong, especially when changing altitude.
    *  Facility database download continues in the background even if the application is closed prior to completion.
    * Map view when standing still or moving slowly (e.g., walking or taxiing very slowly) is a bit erratic. The view may shift position unexpectedly until you are moving at a more consistent speed.