#summary Differences between release branches and trunk
= Introduction =

This documents tracks _significant differences_ between the code of released versions (in tags/xxxx-release-x.x.x) and the corresponding code in trunk/ at the time of release.

Significant differences are changes that are not reflected in trunk, such as quick fixes (hacks) needed for a particular release, etc.  Cherrypicking a revision from trunk to a release branch usually does *not* constitute such a difference: the change is already in trunk.

Notation:
  * *Release x (rY -> rZ)*: Revision Y was tagged as release x in revision Z.

== Release 0.15.0 (trunk r555 -> branch r556 -> r560) ==
  * No changes from trunk.

== Release 0.13.0 (trunk r521 -> branch r522 -> r524) ==
  * No changes from trunk.

== Release 0.11.1 (trunk r481 -> branch r486 -> r488) ==
  * Cherry picked r481 to get improved panning.
  * The above rev also fixed a NPE if you panned w/o a current location.

== Release 0.11.0 (trunk r461 -> branch r463 -> r464) ==
  * No changes from trunk.

== Release 0.9.0 (trunk r416 -> branch r419 -> r420) ==
  * No changes from trunk.

== Release 0.7.2 (trunk r377 -> branch r393 -> r394) ==
  * Disabled simulator menu (see r367, r393)

== Release 0.7.1 (r359 -> r360) ==
  * Same as 0.7.0

== Release 0.7.0 (r344 -> r345) ==
  * Removed simulator code (r336)

== Release 0.5.1 (r293 -> r294) ==
  * Improved database download hack: Hide exceptions raised by showing dialog when application is closed. (r292, r293)

== Release 0.5 (r268 -> r270) ==
  * Remove keypad heading (r249, done in trunk/ in r274)
  * Database download hack: do not show dialog while checking for update, hide errors (r266)